Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Michael Gonzalez, with us who will be sharing God's word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So I'm going to start off today by apologizing ahead of time.
My voice sounds somewhat better today, but I have had laryngitis for about a week now.
So if my voice gives out, I apologize.
I was actually getting a second cup of coffee, not that I didn't want to worship, but to keep my voice moving.
So we're going to continue in on our service, on our series, rather, on We Are.
And again, we have moved diligently through being assemblies of God, church members, who are trying or hope or seeking to bring hope and healing to our community.
This is our plan, our purpose.
And today, specifically, we are working through a sub-series on being good neighbors.
We bring hope and healing by being good neighbors.
Today, I want us to look at a specific
topic or a specific part of this is overcoming the fear factor, building courageous connections, overcoming the fear factor of being a good neighbor.
We've hit on some of this, but we're going to continue on today.
Because here's the reality.
Fear is a powerful force.
Fear
can paralyze us, it can make us second guess our decisions, it can even prevent us from engaging with the people around us.
I think we've all had moments or experienced moments when we wanted to reach out to a neighbor to start a conversation or even maybe to offer a helping hand.
But something inside of us, and we're gonna call it for what it is, fear, held us back by some
form or function.
We ask ourselves things like, what if they don't want to talk?
What if they reject me?
Or what if I say the wrong thing?
What if they ask me a question about the Bible and I don't have the answer?
Or what if they call me out for something that they saw me do last week that doesn't fit the thing that I'm talking about them to today?
So picture with me, if you will.
You've just moved in to a brand new neighborhood.
It's your first week in your new home.
You've still got boxes everywhere.
You still haven't really kind of made a home yet, but you've been there for a little bit and you've got a few things unpacked and you're excited to possibly meet your new neighbors.
One day you notice a man working in his yard across the street and you think, maybe I'll go over there and introduce myself.
But as you walk towards him, doubt.
How many of us know our old friend doubt?
Yeah, I think all of us know doubt.
Doubt likes to come in when we don't want him to come in.
He starts creeping in and you start thinking, he starts whispering in your mind, what if he's busy?
What if I'm interrupting him?
What if he doesn't want to be bothered?
So you get about three or four steps out into the street to move towards your new neighbor and you go, wait a minute, and you turn around.
You never actually say anything.
Days turn into weeks, weeks turn into months.
You still don't really even know his name.
Why?
because fear has a way of keeping us from the very thing that we know that we should be doing.
Fear
convinces us that staying in our comfort zone is safer.
Staying in our little bubble that we've created for ourselves is safer.
Staying in our little pocket that we've set for ourselves, I do things this way, this time, this place, and that's all I do and I never vary from it whatsoever.
I'm gonna tell you a quick little story and I hope my wife doesn't get mad at me for it.
But she tells a story and it's kind of a comical thing because it's actually stereotyped in media is that her dad had many of the same color shirt that were starched in the same way so that he basically dressed the same way day after day.
And if you watch much in the way of television, unfortunately, that is a stereotype that they use for a working man, a working dad, is he'll have seven white, starched shirts, collared, heavily starched down, pressed at the dry cleaner.
And that's what he wears and pair black pants or a pair of tan pants.
And it's the same pants and it's the same shirt.
There's no variation.
And so why does that something like that happen?
Because they're building in for themselves this bubble.
If nothing changes, everything stays the same.
I don't have to be responsible for anything or nothing can get me.
if I keep everything exactly the same.
Very often it is a protection, a self-protection mechanism.
And we do this in the church.
We call it the Jesus bubble or the Christian bubble and all of our friends are Christians.
We go to church and that's where our circle of friends are, all of the people we talk to and all of the people that we don't talk to are all the other people that are out there.
And we create for ourselves this little insulated box
And it gives us a buffer between us and the world.
Why?
Because of our friend, fear.
Now you know I'm using the word friend facetiously.
Because we don't like fear.
And fear doesn't like us.
See, he gets us to stay in these little bubbles because it helps us avoid uncomfortable situations.
And he reminds us that, well, this is safer than risking rejection or awkwardness.
But the truth is, is that fear robs us of the opportunity to build meaningful relationships.
The kind of relationships that we've been talking about over the last few weeks, those kinds of relationships that God calls us to have with our neighbors.
What does he say?
To love him and then to love our neighbor.
You know the answers to this, more pop quizzes, okay?
So you might bring a paper and notes are next time, I'm kidding.
See, the Bible speaks directly to this kind of a struggle.
Paul tells Timothy, look at 2 Timothy chapter one and verse seven.
2 Timothy chapter one and verse seven.
Says, for God has not given us a spirit of fear, say it, fear, and timidity, but of
Power, love, and self-discipline.
This verse reminds us that fear doesn't come from God.
Instead, God gives us the power to overcome fear.
He gives us the love to reach out to others and the wisdom to navigate those interactions.
Do you know what the truth is?
We hand over to the devil the keys to our mind, our heart.
Every time we let fear take control.
Now I'm not saying he takes possession of you.
We're not talking that, but we are giving into his temptation.
Every time we allow fear to grip us.
Every time we allow the enemy to doubt, to say, don't go over to that neighbor.
Have you seen that neighbor?
Have you heard the way they argue?
See, in our world today, fear is one of the greatest obstacles to neighboring, our series, being a good neighbor.
One of the greatest obstacles we face in being a good neighbor, the reason that this church isn't packed out Sunday to Sunday, regardless of who stands up here,
is because of fear.
And I know you may argue that, however, it is the case.
We're afraid to invite our neighbors.
We've talked about this dozens of times.
People will not come to church.
It's like a 20% rate, something like that, by my invitation, because I'm self-involved, but they will come by your invitation.
Most people are only waiting for somebody to ask them, because they are,
afraid to walk in those doors by themselves because they don't know what's on the other side of the doors.
They don't realize that there is a whole bunch of folks that are waiting with an open hand to shake their hand and show them the love of Jesus because so many of our churches for so long
On the other side of these doors have been people who are judgmental, hateful, that push people away.
You don't look like us, smell like us, act like us, talk like us, worship like us, whatever it may be.
And so they don't want to walk through those doors because they've already had a bad experience.
But if you, a friend of a neighbor, will reach out and say, hey, listen, I will help you bridge that gap.
They'll come, at least to try it out.
Because why?
because the fear has been taken away.
That isolation moment has been taken away.
People are afraid of rejection.
They don't walk through the door by themselves because they're afraid they're gonna be pushed out.
They're also afraid of the unknown.
They don't know what's on the other side.
Or is there danger?
See, we often let fear dictate our actions
or are in action.
Can I tell you that some of you may realize this, some of you may not, that we are what?
We are Pentecostals, right?
Who can say amen?
Thank the Lord that we are.
We move in the power and presence of the Holy Spirit.
However, in the Appalachians, does anybody know where the Appalachians are or the Appalachians?
Okay, they're a mountain range.
that is over in Tennessee.
I see one of our sisters chuckling because I'm almost positive she knows where I'm going with this.
It is a mountain range from Tennessee that goes up through New York and up that side of our country.
The very bottom of those mountain ranges is an area that is known as kind of what we would call hillbilly.
They speak with a very strong accent and they are very
backwards in the way that they live societally.
Okay, we'll leave it at that.
However, they have a sect of Pentecostalism.
When you walk into their church on a Sunday morning, their doors are open and unlocked just like ours are.
And at 1030, if they start at 1030 like we do, the elders or the ushers go back to the doors and they lock the doors.
How'd you like that?
You're a visitor and you walk in and, okay, time for church.
And then all of a sudden, a deacon comes over and grabs a box.
And they set it down.
And they open it up.
And the lid opens to the crowd so you can't see what's in the box.
Does anybody know where I'm going with this?
Anybody know what's in the box?
As they reach into the box, the pastor, the deacons, the elders, they pull out snakes.
Yes, this is true.
I'm not telling you a fib.
They pull out snakes, some of them venomous, some of them not, and they will worship.
Sister Vicki, can we, no, I'm kidding.
And they will dance and they will worship and they will move with these snakes.
When you tell people that we're Pentecostal, you need to understand some people, that's what they think.
They think that we're a snake handling church.
And they base their belief on the one passage that Paul talks about having dominion over the animal and that if I see a snake, he will not strike my heel.
One small passage, they have an entire doctrine built around it.
So when we talk about fear and people coming into a Pentecostal church, we need to understand there's more than just like, oh, don't be silly.
What would you ever think you could be afraid of in our church?
Everybody here is extremely wonderful and kind.
Would you agree with that?
But the world out there, they've only seen videos of the snake handling Pentecostals.
And they think that that's what we are.
And so we have to overcome the objections.
We have to overcome the fear of talking to our neighbors, helping them understand who we are.
Because see, here's the thing.
We don't ever know where somebody's coming from.
We don't know where their background is, what their church history, what their belief system or anything like that.
But just like we would want somebody to come and talk to us, just like we would want somebody to come and talk to us and have real conversations about Jesus, we need to go have real conversations with them.
Because if we're gonna follow Jesus and we're gonna follow His command to love our neighbor as ourselves, we need to deal with our own fear about overcoming those conversations
and also address their fears about coming to Christ or about coming to church.
I do apologize for drinking.
Today we're going to look at a few things.
So we're getting ready to get into the points.
Today we're going to look at a few things that affect our relationships with our neighbors, how we can overcome it through power, love, and courage that God so graciously gives.
because fear may be a reality, but it doesn't have to control us.
God calls us to step out in faith and to build courageous connections with the people that He has placed around us.
Building connections.
Now listen, let me just start off.
When we talk about building connections, it's not just about inviting people into this building.
It may be saying, Pastor,
I'm gonna, I need support because I wanna start a little Bible study.
It's not something official from the church, but I wanna invite two or three friends over, and I wanna just start opening a door to conversation.
Just at home, what can I use?
Can I tell you, I got lots, have you ever been in my office and seen my books?
I have lots of books, lots of resources that I can provide you so that you can build
begin that process of building relationships and being able to talk to people about your relationship with Christ.
If you're a note taker, here's our first one that we're going to look at when we talk about building courageous connections.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to look at the root of fear.
Again, we've already looked at 2 Timothy 1, verse 7, and I'll put that up here in a moment.
But fear's not just an emotion, it's a barrier that can keep us from fully engaging in the life that God has called us to live.
When we talk about living life, free, having freedom in Christ, it's freedom from fear.
Again, our passage, as we looked at earlier, for God's not given us a spirit of fear and timidity, but of power, love, and self-discipline.
The verse gives us three things.
Fear is not from God.
Instead, God equips us with power, love, and sound judgment.
So for just a moment, I want us to take a look.
And I want us to see how fear takes root in our lives.
And it prevents us from being the neighbors that God calls us to be.
First thing we need to see is that we need to understand how fear holds us back.
There's fear of the unknown.
We talked about that when we talk about visitors.
One of the most common forms of fear is the fear of the unknown.
When we don't know someone, we tend to fill in the blanks with assumptions.
And often those assumptions are negative.
When we see, I use again a lot, the big burly biker guy, and we assume that he's dangerous.
We assume that he's mean because these faces always knurled up.
We make these negative assumptions.
We do this to our neighbors.
Maybe our neighbors from a different cultural background than us, which for most of us is
likely, especially given that we live in St. Louis, that is a wonderful melting pot of all kinds of nations.
And because we don't know about that specific culture that they are from, we, or we've only heard things in the news or whatever, and it's all been spun, we may make certain negative assumptions.
Or maybe, again, living in St. Louis, maybe our neighbor's lifestyle is different than ours, and so we make certain assumptions and we go, eh, not gonna do it.
So instead of reaching out, we hold back, we tell ourselves that it's easier to keep ourselves, keep to ourselves, than to risk a potentially awkward or uncomfortable situation.
Do you know that this is not a new problem?
The Israelites dealt with this.
They dealt with this kind of fear when God commanded them to love the foreigners living among them.
Look at Leviticus chapter 19 and verse 34.
Says, treat them like native born Israelites and love them as you love yourself.
Oh, hmm.
So that statement from Jesus isn't a new statement.
It goes all the way back to the book of Leviticus.
Don't you love how scripture connects scripture?
Remember that you were once foreigners living in the land of Egypt.
I am the Lord your God.
This command reminds us that the fear of the unknown should not prevent us from showing love.
It's precisely those who are different from us whom we are called to love and to welcome.
What do we mean by that?
We'll see everybody's different than us.
See, in our context, it's easy to make the cultural connection or the ethnic background connection.
But the reality is, is it doesn't really matter on those things because we are saved and they are not.
And so they are different than us.
And so we need to be people who are willing to cross
that line to step out in faith and to believe that he is the Lord our God and he is the father of me and ultimately he is their father.
He simply wants us to introduce him.
So again, I want you to picture a new family moving into your neighborhood.
You've never spoken to them, but you notice that they keep to themselves, and you start to wonder why.
Maybe they don't want to talk to anyone, you think?
What if they're unfriendly?
But after weeks of avoidance, you finally say hello, only to find out that they've been shy and were waiting for someone to introduce themselves first.
How often does our fear
of the unknown keep us from making a simple connection that could lead to a beautiful friendship.
This goes back to that rule of people are waiting for you to invite them to church.
But fear's holding on.
Well, they've already told me how they feel.
I already know they don't want to go.
I don't want to get in a fight about religion.
Well, my religion, it's a personal thing.
That's a cop out.
Our religion is not a personal thing.
It is a Jesus thing.
And our job is to go into all the world and make disciples.
So that means we have to step out in faith.
The second part is that we have when we talk about the root of fears, the fear of rejection.
And this keeps us from neighboring.
We're afraid that if we reach out, our efforts might be rejected.
I don't wanna hear about Jesus.
When I was a kid, I would go door to door and I don't know if they'd still do this anymore, but we had to sell stuff for school.
And we'd have to take the little thing of candy bars, and we'd have to go door to door.
And hi, would you like to buy a world's finest chocolate bar?
We're supporting our whatever.
And very often, people would have a sign on their door that says, we have all the junk we need.
We have already found religion.
We already this, no soliciting.
Which basically said, go away.
Do we knock still?
Do they really mean to push away the 12-year-old selling a candy bar?
Or is it really more like the Kirby vacuum cleaner salesman guy or the Jehovah's Witnesses that like to walk the neighborhood?
Let's see, we allow ourselves to be afraid of the rejection that might be there.
So what does a 12-year-old boy do?
He goes, I'm not knocking on that door and go to the next one.
When they very well might have liked to have a caramel whatever candy bar.
The other thing that plays into this fear of rejection is that we may have experienced rejection in the past.
And the idea of opening ourselves up again, frankly, is just too painful.
We've had somebody push us away, somebody we cared about deeply.
And it doesn't even have to be about a witnessing thing.
It can be rejection for anything.
A boyfriend, a girlfriend that you just were absolutely in love with, and all of a sudden, they're with a different boy or girl.
Somebody that you care deeply about and relationship went bad.
So rather than risk the rejection, we remain silent.
We simply, again, we put ourselves in our bubble.
because we want to avoid the risk altogether.
But see, Scripture assures us that if God is for us, no one can truly be against us.
Romans 8 chapter 8 and verse 31, what shall we say about such wonderful things as these?
If God is for us, who can ever be against us?
Amen?
Again, this doesn't mean that we're not gonna face rejection, we will.
It just means that we don't need to fear it.
Rejection happens, it's gonna happen to everybody and it's, whether you try to insulate yourself or not, it's going to happen.
You're gonna be passed over for a promotion, you're gonna be passed over for a romantic relationship, you're gonna be passed over for some thing that you really wanted, whatever it may be, it's gonna happen.
But here's the amazing thing.
We have to put things in context.
We are really good at isolating individual parts of our lives.
Men, we do this more than the ladies do.
We are compartmental thinkers.
But can I make a connection for you?
Rejection's gonna happen.
But God has already accepted us.
Acceptance has already happened.
And that is the only approval that we really need.
Oh, that one should have got at least an amen or two.
His approval is all that we need.
I know we're human.
I know we desperately seek human connection.
We were made for that.
But at the end of the day, the only thing that we need, the only acceptance that we need is his.
Think about the apostles in the early church.
They faced rejection time and time again as they went out and tried to spread the gospel.
People laughed at them, they ignored them, and sometimes they violently rejected them.
But they continued to preach what they knew that God had for them because they knew that God was with them.
And in the same way we can take comfort in knowing that even if
A neighbor doesn't respond the way that we really would like, the way that we would hope.
God sees our effort and he walks with us every step of the way.
Remember, some plant, some water, God gives the increase.
In evangelism, increase is not on your shoulders.
That is God's part.
Your job is to overcome fear, speak the truth in love, and allow the seed that gets planted to be watered, and then ultimately for God to blossom it.
Sometimes he does that right there in the one setting, and you plant the seed, you water the seed, you tend to the soil by answering the questions all right there.
And then God says, I'm ready.
Hey, would you like to pray and accept Jesus today?
Yes, I would.
But sometimes, say, I just want you to know that as a Christian, I'm going to be praying for you.
I know you're not a believer, but my God can answer all of your desires and all of your needs.
So I'm ready.
I'm willing and I'm going to pray for you this week.
And so now the seed has been planted.
And then somebody else comes along and says, Hey, I heard that you're going through something.
And I know they're praying for you, but can I?
And then somewhere down the line, God does the increase.
Fear is a natural response, but it's not from God.
It's built into who we are as human beings, but what is our original passage?
Tell us that we have?
says that God gives us a spirit of power, love, and sound judgment.
When we feel fear rising up within us, we need to remind ourselves of that truth.
We have to stop letting fear of the unknown or fear of rejection dictate how we interact with those around us.
We need to begin to ask God for the courage to take the first step and trusting that He is with us and that His love will overcome any fear that we might have.
Second thing we need to look at when we talk about building courageous connections, overcoming the fear factor, is we need to look at the impact of fear on our relationships.
See, fear doesn't just stop us from engaging with others.
It distorts how we see people around us and the relationships that God calls us to build.
When we leave, it unchecked.
Fear can make us view our neighbors not as fellow humans that are created in God's image, but our fight or flight instincts can kick in.
And all of the sudden, we might see the other people that God is calling us to as the enemy, as something to be feared, as something that might be a potential threat or an obstacle or an inconvenience.
But look at what first John chapter four in verse 18 says.
Where's my passage at?
Did I not get it in there?
I didn't get it in there, so I'm just gonna read it to you.
It says this, such love has no fear because perfect love expels all fear.
If we are afraid, it is for fear of punishment, and this is how this shows that we have not fully experienced his perfect love.
Let me read that again.
Such love, this is 1 John 4 18, such love has no fear because perfect love expels all fear.
If we're afraid, it is for fear of punishment.
And this shows that we have not fully experienced his perfect love.
See, fear distorts our view of others.
Fear changes how we perceive the world around us.
It magnifies the negative and it diminishes the positive.
In Scripture, we see how clearly the story of the Israelites spies who were sent out to explore the promised land.
Numbers chapter 13 and verse 33, 10 of the 12 spies that went out came back.
and they brought back the story of what was going on in the promised land.
Ten of them came back filled with fear, and this is what they said.
It says, we even saw giants there, the descendants of an ox.
Next to them, we felt like grasshoppers, and that's what they thought too.
Their fear caused them to see themselves as weak and small, and it distorted their perception of the inhabitants of the land.
The truth is that God had already promised them the victory, but their fear blinded them to the reality of what God had done.
When we talk about this in context of our modern day,
This is much like the way that we see our neighbors.
We think, ah, they'll never be interested in talking to me.
They're too different from me.
We won't have anything in common.
And these beliefs, these fears are often based on assumptions rather than on the truth.
The big burly biker guy I always talk about.
Can I tell you the truth?
He's really not all that big.
He's really not all that burly.
He's really not all that inked up.
But because we're afraid, it seems more than it is.
This applies in many areas of our lives.
When we're afraid of what somebody is doing, all of the sudden, the couple of things that they're doing, that because we're afraid,
It seems huge, and the old phrase is we make mountains out of mole hills.
Something that's really rather insignificant is this huge issue, and we have to be careful that we don't allow that.
Why?
Because fear leads to isolation.
Fear not only distorts our view of others, but it causes us to retreat into isolation.
When we allow fear to control us, we avoid meaningful interactions with people around us, leaving us disconnected and alone.
This is the opposite of what God calls us to.
Why do we know that?
Look at Proverbs chapter 18 and verse one.
Says, whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire.
He breaks out against all sound judgment.
If you're pulling away from the community, if you're pulling away from your neighbor, if you're pulling away from the group, we'll say here at church, then there's a good chance that there's a bit of selfishness built in.
And we need to check our own hearts.
because the isolation can be a form of self-protection, but it's not God's design for us.
1 John 4 18 again reminds us that perfect love drives out fear.
Love pulls us out of the isolation and pushes us towards these meaningful connections.
Fear builds walls, but love builds bridges.
That's tweetable.
That's a note taker.
Fear builds walls, but love builds bridges.
When we allow God's love to flow through us, it drives away the fear that keeps us disconnected.
The third thing that we need to look at when we talk about overcoming the fear factors, breaking through, breaking through this fear factor.
Look at what Joshua chapter one in verse nine says,
Says, this is my command.
Be weak and afraid.
No, no, that's not what that says, does it?
Says, this is my command, be strong and courageous.
Don't be afraid or discouraged for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.
That means across the street or next door to your neighbors.
That means when you reach across the cubicle wall and talk to somebody.
That means that he is there here in church.
Why?
Because he calls us to step out in faith and courage.
His presence overcomes fear.
The command that God gave Joshua is as relevant for us today as it was then.
He didn't promise Joshua that everything would be easy.
He said, don't be afraid because I'll be with you wherever you go.
Don't be afraid.
Not because it's gonna be easy.
Not because there won't be giants in the land.
Not because I'm gonna make a path so you can walk on through.
He says, when you go, I'm with you.
One passage says, when you walk through the fire, I will be there.
You will not be burned.
Think about the three Hebrew children.
You gotta figure that they were terrified.
They're still human.
Yes, they had faith, faith-like giants.
But there was still a furnace
And they knew, I mean, we know what fire does to the human body, yeah?
And they're about to be thrown in.
Okay, God.
God, you've called me to worship you, and this is where it's ended me up in my life.
So in a moment, I'm gonna meet you.
And my life is over.
But may I stand before you found innocent?
In they go.
They're standing there.
All of a sudden nothing's happening.
I can't imagine that it wasn't hot, but they weren't being burned.
And then all of a sudden, there was somebody else standing in the fire with them.
And my God says, don't be afraid because I am there with you.
When we walk across the street, when we knock on our neighbor's door, last time I checked, they didn't have a flamethrower sitting at their front door.
So anything less than that, would you call good?
Because they're not lighting you up on fire, but yet he still says, I'm there with you.
Don't be afraid.
He calls us to step out and to make disciples
I referenced this earlier, Matthew 28, 20.
Teach these new disciples to obey all the commands that I've given you and be sure of this.
I am with you always even to the end of the age.
Guess what?
We're at the end of the age and he's still here and he's still with us.
because at the end of the day, love is the antidote to fear.
I don't know what's going on in your life and I don't know what's happening.
I learned a long time ago that anger is just fear turned outward.
I'm sorry, it turned outward.
Anger is just fear.
If you're angry, you're fearful.
If you're doubting, you're fearful.
So can I tell you, love is the antidote to that fear.
Now, if you remember other lessons we have learned and you have learned, I am 100% positive that you have heard from other pastors.
Love is not a feeling.
Love is a choice.
So if love is a choice and love is the antidote to fear, if I am angry or if I am battling doubt, then I can choose to love
An action, I can make an action, I can do something to overcome the fear, the anger, the doubt.
Even if I don't feel like it, husbands and wives, this is applicable to you.
We very often, in counseling as a pastor, I will talk to people and they're just like, I just don't feel in love anymore.
The spark isn't there like it was when we first got married.
And you don't look the way you did when we first got married.
Amen.
But love is a choice.
I choose to wake up every morning and I choose to love my wife.
I don't always feel like it.
Don't aim in from over there.
I don't always feel like it, but I choose to love my wife.
I choose to work through the challenges that we have in our marriage.
I choose to love my children.
I choose daily to wake up and pray over every one of you and to love every one of you as the shepherd, as the pastor of the church.
Whether you like me or not, I choose to love you.
And we need to choose to love our neighbor as ourself.
Because this is what God has called us to do.
So is that close?
We need to take a moment and reflect on some of these ideas that we've come to.
Because fear is something that we all deal with, whether it's the fear of the unknown, fear of rejection,
or the fear that keeps us from fully engaging with the people around us.
Remember, fear distorts our perception.
It isolates us from others, and it prevents us from living out the command to love our neighbor as ourselves.
But the good news is this, and we start where we finish where we started.
For God has not given us a spirit of fear and timidity, but of power and of love and of self-discipline.
Through His presence, we have the courage to step out in faith and to build relationships that reflect Him, not me, Him, and to overcome fear that holds us back.
Remember, fear is not from God.
It often stems from our fear of the unknown or fear of rejection.
Fear distorts how we view others, can cause us to self-isolate, but God gives us perfect love to cast out fear, and it enables us to build healthy, life-giving relationships.
And with God's presence and love, we can step out in faith.
We can overcome our fears,
We can engage in meaningful relationship, meaningful connections with our neighbors.
How do we grow Berea Temple?
By stepping out in faith and building courageously, building connections with those around us.
So let's pray.
Father, You've called us to step out.
For some of us, it's stepping out into the fire because we are not good at conversation.
We are not good at stepping out in faith and talking to our neighbors.
For some of us, Lord, the fear just grips us too much.
So we don't know the name of our neighbors.
We don't know who lives around us.
We don't know anything about them.
But we do know that you're calling us to step out and build courageous connections.
So with every head bowed and every eye closed, nobody's looking around.
I want to offer two invitations as I typically do.
First is for those who have been living with fear,
whether it's fear of reaching out to others, fear of rejection, or fear of stepping out of your comfort zone.
I want to invite you to bring those fears to God.
Ask Him for the courage to step out in faith and to trust that His presence will guide and go with you.
The second invitation is for anyone who has never experienced the love of Christ.
The love that drives out all fear.
I want to invite you today to receive that love.
Jesus overcame the greatest fear that is death itself so that we might have life and have it abundantly.
And so if you're ready to invite Christ into your life, we'll call you to step out of the fear today and come forward or reach out to us online.
commitment today.
So as our worship team plays, the altar is open.
You are more than welcome if you need time in the presence of the Lord.
If you need to respond, we invite you during the singing to come and to respond.
Somebody would love to pray with you.
But if you just need time to pray, you need time alone.
with the Lord.
The altars are open.
Our altars are these benches that are down front.
They are altars or of course you can come and sit at the steps as well.
However you want to pray, maybe you simply want to sit in your seat.
Take the next couple of moments.
Speak to the Lord and give those fears up.